An analysis of Weekly PyBer Fare Revenue by City Type

Overview: An investigation was conducted on the revenue trends of PyBer in 2019.  The weekly revenue generated by ride fares was analyzed across urban, suburban, and rural city types in the operating region.  This was done in order to determine general trends in the data as well as to determine if there are any potential inefficiencies in the business model that may need to be altered to increase profitability.

Data Analysis results: The analysis performed on raw PyBer ride data and city data determined the total number of rides for each city type, the total number of drivers working in each city type, the total revenue generated by fares, the average fare per ride and the averaged fare per driver. The analysis also visualized the revenue generated by fares in the first 4 months of 2019 by PyBer.

Summary Data: To generate the summary data for PyBer in 2019, the city dataframes and ride dataframes were merged by city into a complete dataset (fig 1). This dataset contained all rides data and also contained the city type.  The number of rides, drivers, and the fare was summed for each city type, and the mean fare per ride and fare per driver was deterined and assembled into a new dataframe (fig 2).


The summary data shows that more densely populated urban urban environments generate the most revenue by fares ($39,854.38), and had the most number of rides and total drivers while sparsley populated rural cities generated less revenue and had fewer riders and drivers.  This suggests that the utilization rate of PyBer occurs most in densely populated cities.  However utilization per capita has not been determined due to a lack of population data.  In lieu of per capita utilization data, the average fare per ride and average fare per driver may produce a similar amount of insight.  The average fare per ride and fare per driver are inversely proportionate to population density, showing higher monotary rates in rural cities.  This may suggest that demand in rural areas may be higher on a per capita basis than urban cities, and the increase in fare cost likely attributes to either a short supply of drivers, or longer distances to destinations.  Looking at the total rides and total drivers, indicates that a short supply of drivers may be contributing to higher fare costs since the ratio of rides to drivers in rural cities is nearly 2:1 while urban cities have a nearly 1:2 ratio of rides to drivers indicating an excess supply of drivers.


